-- primitive types
in java types are the most basic data types. The in is one of eight primitive types.
The eight primitive data types in java are boolean, byte, char, short, int, long, float and double.
Consider these types as the building blocks of data mnipulation.

-- Java packages
A package is a way to organize your java projects. For now, consider them as folders with learnprogramming in our example being a subfolder of acadey. Companies use their domain names reversed.
So learnprogramming.academy becomes academy.learnprogramming.

-- Wrapper classes
Java uses the concept of a wrapper class for all eight primitive types - in te case of an int, we can use Integer, and by doing that it gives us ways to perform operations on an int.
int myMinIntValue = Integer.MIN_VALUE;
int myMaxIntValue = Integer.MAX_VALUE;
System.out.println("Integer Minimun Value = " + myMinIntValue);
System.out.println("Integer Maximun value = " + myMaxIntValue);
In this case, we are using the MIN_VALUE and MAX_VALUE to get java to tell us the minimum and maximum ranges of numbers that can be stored.

-- overflow and underflow in java
if you try and put a value larger than the maximum value in java, or a value smaller than the minimum value in java, then you will get an Overflow in the case of the maximum value aor an Underflow in the case of the minimum.

The computer just kips back to the minimum number or the maximum number, which is usually not what you want. It's an important concept to be aware of.

-- size of primitive types and width
A byte occupies 8 bits. A bit is not directly represented in a priitive type - we hava boolean which is not really the same thing. So a byte occupies 8 bits. We say that a byte has a width of 8.

A short can store a large range of numbers and occupies 16 bits, and has a width of 16.

An int, has a much larger range as we know and occupiets 32 bits, and has a width of 32.

The poin here is that each primitive type occupies a different amount of memory - we can see that an int needs four times the amount of space, than a byte does for example.

-- casting in java
Casting meanns to treat or convert a number from on type to another. We put the type we want the number to be in parenthesis like this:
(bye) (myIntByteValue / 2)

-- floating point numbers
unlike whole numbers, floating point numbers have fractional parts that were express with a decimal point. 3.14159 is an example.
Floating point numbers are also known as real numbers. We use a floating point number when we need more precision in calculations.

-- single and double precision
precision refers to the format and amount of space occupied by the type. Single precision occupies 32 bits (so has a width of 32) and a Double precision occupies 64 bits (and thus has a width of 64)

As a result the float has a range from 1.4E-45 to 3.4028235E+38 and the double is much more precise with a range from 4.9E-324 to 17976931348623157E+308.

